MON-146279 - CMA documentation FR - DRAFT (#3492)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/getting-started/how-to-guides/cma.md

  "reversed_grpc_streaming":true
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Encryption, poller connects to agent" label="Encryption, poller connects to agent">

```json
{
    "log_level":"trace",
    "endpoint":"0.0.0.0:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" ,
  "reversed_grpc_streaming":true,
  "encryption":true,
  "private_key":"/tmp/server_1234.key",
  "public_cert":"/tmp/server_1234.crt",
  "ca_certificate":"/tmp/ca_1234.crt"
}

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Log configuration

You can configure two kinds of log output:
* file: the CMA logs into a file, the path is configured in the **log_file** option.
* stdout: standard output is used.

If you choose to log into a file, log rotation can be customized using the **log_max_file_size** and **log_max_files** options.

Allowed log levels are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off.

2. Restart the CMA:

```shell
systemctl restart centagent
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows" label="Windows">

1. [Download the CMA installer](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-collect/releases) on every server you want to monitor.

> 2. Start the installer (during configuration, you can click on (i) icons to have some help)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Start the installer (during the configuration, you can click on the (i) icons for help).
```

> 3. Configure endpoint and connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Configure the endpoint and the connection:
```

>    You have to set "Host name in Centreon". This name must be the host name you will enter in Centreon UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Host name in Centreon**. This must be the host name you have defined in the Centreon interface.
```

>    In most case (agent connects to poller), you have to enter Poller endpoint. It must be like  "poller ip or dns name":"opentelemetry listening poller port usually 4317", for example 192.168.45.32:4317. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * In most cases (the agent connects to the poller), you have to enter the poller's endpoint. The correct format is  <poller IP or DNS name>:port (OpenTelemetry listening port on the poller, usually 4317), for example 192.168.45.32:4317. 
```

>    In Poller-initiated connection (poller connects to agent), you have to choose an host interface or 0.0.0.0 and the listening port, usually 4317 on witch poller will connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * In case of a poller-initiated connection (the poller connects to the agent), you have to choose a host interface (0.0.0.0 for all interfaces) and the listening port on which poller will connect, usually 4317.
```

> 4. Configure logging options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Configure logging options. You can configure two kinds of log output:
```

> You can configure two kinds of log output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

* File: the CMA logs into a file

> * EventLog: the CMA logs in the event viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* EventLog: the CMA logs in the [event logs page](/docs/alerts-notifications/event-log).
```

> If you choose to log into a file, log rotation can be customized using the "Max File Size" and "Max number of files" options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to log into a file, log rotation can be customized using the **Max File Size** and **Max number of files** options.
```

Allowed log levels are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off.

5. Configure encryption

>    Encryption is activated by default. In case of Poller-initiated connection, private key file and certificate file are mandatory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encryption is activated by default. In case of a poller-initiated connection, the private key file and certificate file are mandatory.
```

| Connector Name        | Centreon Monitoring Agent                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Connector Description | Centreon Monitoring Agent                                                                                                                                                                     |
| Command Line          | `opentelemetry --processor=centreon_agent --extractor=attributes --host_path=resource_metrics.resource.attributes.host.name --service_path=resource_metrics.resource.attributes.service.name` |
| Used by command       | Type `Centreon-Monitoring-Agent` and click **Select all**                                                                                                                                     |
| Connector Status      | Enabled                                                                                                                                                                                       |

### Configure Engine

> 1. On the poller that will receive the data from the agent, install centreon-engine-opentelemetry package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the poller that will receive the data from the agent, install the **centreon-engine-opentelemetry** package.
```

   
2. On the poller that will receive the data from the agent, create the following file:

   ```shell
   touch /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
   ```

3. Enter the following contents. This will allow the poller to receive the data that the agent will send.
  
  > The poller can work in both modes simultaneously (some agents connect to the poller, while the poller connects to some other agents).

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="No encryption, agent connects to poller" label="No encryption, agent connects to poller">

```json
{
   "otel_server":{
      "host":"0.0.0.0",
      "port":4317
   },
   "max_length_grpc_log":0,
   "centreon_agent":{
      "check_interval":60,
      "export_period":10
   }
}
```

```bash
chown centreon-engine: /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Encryption, agent connects to poller" label="Encryption, agent connects to poller">

```json
{
   "otel_server":{
      "host":"0.0.0.0",
      "port":4317,
      "encryption":true,
      "public_cert":"<CERTIFICATE PATH>",
      "private_key":"<KEY PATH>",

>       "ca_certificate":"<CA PATH>",

Author: ```suggestion
      "ca_certificate":"<CA PATH>"
```

>       "ca_name":"<CA NAME>"

Author: ```suggestion

```

    "endpoint":"0.0.0.0:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" ,
  "reversed_grpc_streaming":true
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Encryption, poller connects to agent" label="Encryption, poller connects to agent">

```json
{
    "log_level":"trace",
    "endpoint":"0.0.0.0:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" ,
  "reversed_grpc_streaming":true,
  "encryption":true,
  "private_key":"/tmp/server_1234.key",
  "public_cert":"/tmp/server_1234.crt",
  "ca_certificate":"/tmp/ca_1234.crt"
}

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

#### Log configuration

You can configure two kinds of log output:
* file: the CMA logs into a file, the path is configured in the **log_file** option.
* stdout: standard output is used.

If you choose to log into a file, log rotation can be customized using the **log_max_file_size** and **log_max_files** options.

Allowed log levels are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off.

2. Restart the CMA:

```shell
systemctl restart centagent
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows" label="Windows">

> 1. [Download the CMA installer](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-collect/releases) on every server you want to monitor.

Author: ```suggestion
1. [Download the CMA installer](https://github.com/centreon/centreon-collect/releases/download/centreon-collect-24.04.6/centreon-monitoring-agent-24.10.0.exe) on every server you want to monitor.
```

| Connector Status      | Enabled                                                                                                                                                                                       |

### Configure Engine

1. On the poller that will receive the data from the agent, create the following file:

   ```shell
   touch /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
   ```

2. Enter the following contents. This will allow the poller to receive the data that the agent will send.

#### Normal usage (CMA connects to poller)

```json
{
   "otel_server":{
      "host":"0.0.0.0",
      "port":4317
   },
   "max_length_grpc_log":0,
   "centreon_agent":{
      "check_interval":60,
      "export_period":10
   }
}
```

```bash
chown centreon-engine: /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
```

#### reverse usage (poller connects to CMA)

You have to use such a configuration when agent is not allowed to connect to agent, for security reasons for example (ex : DMZ).

> In this mode, poller connects to CMA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode, poller connects to the CMA.
```

Le poller permet de fonctionner dans les deux modes simultanément (certains agents se connectent au poller alors que le poller se connecte à d'autres agents).

```json
{
   "max_length_grpc_log":0,
   "centreon_agent":{
      "check_interval":60,
      "export_period":15,
      "reverse_connections":[
         {
            "host":"<HOST ADDRESS>",
            "port":<PORT>
         }
      ]
   }
}
```

```bash
chown centreon-engine: /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
```

* Enter IP  address of CMA host in the fields **host** and port **port**. This IP must be joinable by the poller.
* **check_interval** field is the period between two checks for the same service.

> > For simplicity, this page only covers the configuration of the Agent **in unencrypted mode**, but you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For the sake of simplicity, this page only covers the configuration of the Agent **in unencrypted mode**, but you
```

> can find the procedure to encrypt communications in the [Windows Centreon Monitoring Agent connector] or [Linux Centreon Monitoring Agent connector] documentation.

> (NOTE POUR TEAM DOC : ci-dessous le mode chiffré en normal et reverse, à décaler sur autre page ?)

Reviewer: à retirer

```json
{
   "otel_server":{
      "host":"0.0.0.0",
      "port":4317,
      "encryption":true,
      "public_cert":"<CERTIFICATE PATH>",
      "private_key":"<KEY PATH>",
      "ca_certificate":"<CA PATH>"
   },
   "max_length_grpc_log":0,
   "centreon_agent":{
      "check_interval":60,
      "export_period":10
   }
}
```

```json
{
   "max_length_grpc_log":0,
   "centreon_agent":{
      "check_interval":60,
      "export_period":15,
      "reverse_connections":[
         {
            "host":"localhost",
            "port":4317,
            "encryption":true,
            "ca_certificate":"/tmp/ca_1234.crt"
         }
      ]
   }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Add a new Broker module

1. Go to **Configuration > Pollers > Engine configuration**, then click on the poller you want to monitor your resources.
2. On the **Data** tab, in the **Broker module** section, in the **Multiple Broker Module** parameter, click on **Add a new entry**.
3. Add the following entry :

   ```bash
   /usr/lib64/centreon-engine/libopentelemetry.so /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
   ```

> 4. Export the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Deploy the configuration.
```

> 5. Restart the monitoring engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Restart the monitoring engine:
```

   ```bash
   systemctl restart centengine
   ```

> CMA can now communicate with Centreon. You can set up the monitoring of your hosts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CMA can now communicate with Centreon. You can set up the monitoring of your hosts.
```

## Step 2: Prepare the host

### Download and install the agent

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Linux" label="Linux">

> * Install centreon-monitoring-agent package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install the **centreon-monitoring-agent** package.
```

> 1. Modify /etc/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.json local (4 cases) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Modify the **/etc/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.json** file (4 cases):
```

No encryption, no reverse mode

```json
{
    "log_level":"trace",
    "endpoint":"<IP POLLER>:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" 
}
```

Encryption, no reverse mode

```json
{
    "log_level":"trace",
    "endpoint":"<IP POLLER>:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" ,
  "encryption":true,
  "ca_certificate":"/tmp/ca_1234.crt"
}
```

No encryption, reverse mode

```json
{
    "log_level":"trace",
    "endpoint":"0.0.0.0:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" ,
  "reverse_connection":true
}
```

Encryption, no reverse mode

```json
{
    "log_level":"trace",
    "endpoint":"0.0.0.0:4317",
    "host":"host_1",
    "log_type":"file",
    "log_file":"/var/log/centreon-monitoring-agent/centagent.log" ,
  "reverse_connection":true,
  "encryption":true,
  "private_key":"/tmp/server_1234.key",
  "public_cert":"/tmp/server_1234.crt",
  "ca_certificate":"/tmp/ca_1234.crt"
}

```

> #### Log configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Log configuration

```

You can configure two kinds of log output:

> * file: CMA logs into a file, path is configured in log_file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* file: the CMA logs into a file, the path is configured in the **log_file** option.
```

> * stdout: we use standard output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* stdout: standard output is used.
```

> If you choose to log into a file, log rotate can be parameterized with keys log_max_file_size and log_max_files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to log into a file, log rotation can be customized using the **log_max_file_size** and **log_max_files** options.
```

> Log levels allowed are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allowed log levels are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off.
```

> 2. Restart CMA: systemctl restart centagent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Restart the CMA:

```shell
systemctl restart centagent
```
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Windows" label="Windows">

1. [Download CMA from this URL https://github.com/centreon/centreon-collect/releases ] on every server you want to monitor

> 2. Load file centagent.reg in hte registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Load the **centagent.reg** file in the registry.
```

"endpoint"="10.0.2.15:4317"
"encryption"=dword:00000000
"certificate"=""
"private_key"=""
"ca_certificate"=""
"ca_name"="c:\temp\ca_1234.crt"
"host"="host_1"
"reverse_connection"=dword:00000000
```

No encryption, reverse mode

```
[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Centreon\CentreonMonitoringAgent]
"log_file"="toto.log"
"log_level"="trace"
"log_type"="stdout"
"log_max_file_size"=dword:0000000a
"log_max_files"=dword:00000003
"endpoint"="0.0.0.0:4317"
"encryption"=dword:00000000
"certificate"=""
"private_key"=""
"ca_certificate"=""
"ca_name"=""
"host"="host_1"
"reverse_connection"=dword:00000001
```

Encryption, reverse mode

```
[HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Centreon\CentreonMonitoringAgent]
"log_file"="toto.log"
"log_level"="trace"
"log_type"="stdout"
"log_max_file_size"=dword:0000000a
"log_max_files"=dword:00000003
"endpoint"="0.0.0.0:4317"
"encryption"=dword:00000000
"certificate"="C:\temp\server_1234.crt"
"private_key"="C:\temp\server_1234.key"
"ca_certificate"="C:\temp\server_1234.key"
"ca_name"=""
"host"="host_1"
"reverse_connection"=dword:00000001
```

#### Log configuration
You can configure two kinds of log output:
* file: CMA logs into a file, path is configured in log_file

> * event: CMA logs in event viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* event: the CMA logs in the event viewer
```

> * stdout: we use standard output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* stdout: standard output is used.
```

> If you choose to log into a file, log rotate can be parameterized with keys log_max_file_size and log_max_files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you choose to log into a file, log rotation can be customized using the **log_max_file_size** and **log_max_files** options.
```

> Log levels allowed are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Allowed log levels are: trace, debug, info, warning, error, critical and off.
```

Note: an installer will be available in the final version, to facilitate configuration and massive deployment. In this beta version, you will have to run the agent yourself.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
id: cma
title: Centreon Monitoring Agent
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Introduction

The Centreon Monitoring Agent (CMA) collects metrics and computes statuses on the servers it monitors, and sends them to Centreon.
Centreon plugins as well as Nagios-compatible plugins can be used with this agent. 

### Limitations

> Centreon Monitoring Agent is in Beta Phase. The following limitations need to be considered : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The Centreon Monitoring Agent is in Beta Phase. The following limitations need to be considered : 
* The scope of supervision supported is limited, new (native) controls will be introduced in the final version.
* Manual configuration is required. In the final version, this will be possible via the user interface and largely automated.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### OS supportés

The CMA can be installed on and monitor the following OSs:

> The CMA can be installed on and monitor the following OSs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

chown centreon-engine: /etc/centreon-engine/otl_server.json
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Encryption, agent connects to poller" label="Encryption, agent connects to poller">

```json
{
   "otel_server":{
      "host":"0.0.0.0",
      "port":4317,
      "encryption":true,
      "public_cert":"<CERTIFICATE PATH>",
      "private_key":"<KEY PATH>",
      "ca_certificate":"<CA PATH>",

>       "ca_name":"CA Name"

Author: ```suggestion
      "ca_name":"<CA NAME>"
```

            "host":"localhost",
            "port":4317,
            "encryption":true,
            "ca_certificate":"/tmp/ca_1234.crt",

>             "ca_name":"CA Name"

Author: ```suggestion
            "ca_name":"<CA NAME>"
```
